# Reproducing-Metabolic-origins-of-spatial-organization-in-the-tumor-microenvironment
Cancer tumors are often described as disorganized and chaotic. In contrast, the authors of this article argue that metabolic activity creates spatial gradients similar to those seen in embryonic development, allowing tumor tissues to self-organize and to produce greater efficiency at the level of the entire tumor 1 . Tumor growth can lead to cells that are too far from a vessel for effective resource supply. The vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF-A (VEGF) is secreted in response to hypoxia and high concentrations of lactate 1 . It dilates microvessels and increases their "leakiness" 2-3 , allowing more resources to flow into the surrounding tissue. VEGF expression is frequently upregulated in cancer cell lines 2, 4 , and some cell lines secrete high levels of VEGF constitutively 5 . This strategy has clear advantages for cancer cells, but VEGF secretion also costs resources, and VEGF has powerful angiogenic effects that cause some resources to be redirected away from tumor cells toward the growth of new vessels. Carmona-Fontaine et al. hypothesize that if a tumor secretes VEGF only where resources are scarce in a responsive strategy rather than constitutively, it will minimize needless costs and experience faster growth 1 . They present this as an example of spatial self-organization within a cancer tumor that produces greater efficiency. In their paper, Carmona-Fontaine et al. address this hypothesis by constructing a mathematical model of how the balance between costs and benefits of VEGF secretion changes with increasing distance from existing vessels. They also construct an agent-based model to simulate tumor growth when cells follow a responsive or a constitutive strategy. We aimed to reproduce their results in both the theoretical and agent-based models.
